Scatterplot Guessing Game Developer Report
This page loads with one scatterplot on the right and boxes for user input for correlation coefficient (r) and number of points in the game scatterplot on the left. There also are 3 checkboxes and a table including all of the points currently in the scatterplot.
When the user inputs a number for r and hits the button “Enter Guess”, a popup appears with their guess for r and the actual value for r. When this popup box is closed, a new game scatterplot is generated, and the table of points is updated. When the user inputs the number of points they would like in their graph and hits the button “Update Number of Points”, a new scatterplot is generated with the desired number of points (between 2 and 50) and the table is updated. Both scatterplots are made with plot.ly. I think plot.ly works well for this type of game. There were some strange problems related to the spacing because of plot.ly, which I do not know how to fix, but the plots can be downloaded, which might be useful, if the user wants to show how good they are at this game.
There are 3 checkboxes. The first displays the Linear Regression line. Every time a graph is generated that contains the regression line, an alert pops up with information about linear regression. The second checkbox is to show the table containing user guesses for correlation coefficient and the actual correlation coefficient of the gameplot. The third checkbox shows the data in the guesses table.
Clicking “Skip this Round/New Game Scatterplot” generates a new gameplot without taking in a value for rguess, the user’s guess for correlation coefficient.
Clicking “Reset Data” clears the guesses-table and guesses-scatter, as well as creates a new game scatterplot.
There are some things that I would change about this page. First, when you reset the page, the checkbox for showing regression is still checked on the page. I figured out how to make the data save displayReglineChecked as being false, but the page itself still had it checked. This was slightly problematic, so I just kept the regression line showing on the page. Second, it is kind of annoying to have a pop-up with the definition of linear regression every time a graph loads. I could not think of a better way to inform the reader without cluttering the webpage. Third, originally, I wanted to make the table of random values be editable, so users could find the correlation coefficient of any data they wanted. That would mean the table loads with the data in the game scatterplot, but the user can change the values in it and then click a button with “Update Data” to make the scatterplot they want.  Speaking of clicking buttons, it would be really nice if clicking enter would do something, such as if they have just entered their r guess, hitting enter would click “Enter Guess”. If they have just entered the number of points they want in the game scatterplot, hitting enter would click “Update Number of Points”. Next, I think it would be nice to fix the spacing on the page and make the page prettier. Lastly, I think it would be cool if the guesses-scatter showed the correlation coefficient and regression line between the guesses and actual values of r. It would make the page go full-circle. The goal obviously is to have a correlation coefficient close to 1. It also might be useful to tell the user what the specific regression line is. I did not think about that, as it is not really necessary for the game.
If I had another semester in this CI, which I hopefully will, I want to make the other Bivariate Data page, which would contain a list of points that the user entered and would find and print out the residual, regression line, and correlation coefficient. I also would try to complete the changes listed above.
